OBJECTIVES FOR TODAY:
 *Students will be able to learn
 	-the history/improvement of Selenium
 	-types of selenium
 	-how to create a selenium project
 	-identify the terms MAVEN,POM...
 	-how to implement codes for selenium.
SELENIUM : WHAT IS SELENIUM:
Selenium is an automation tool. It automates only web application(facebook,amazon,ebay....)--> anything that runs through web browsers(chrome, firefox,Microsoft Edge, Safari etc...)
INTERVIEW QUESTION:WHAT IS THE ADVANTAGES AND DISADVANTAGES OF THE SELENIUM?
SELENIUM DISADVANTAGES:(LIMITATION)
1)Selenium cannot automate the captcha(if we cannot automate the captcha then how are we going to create our automation --> Dev Env- QA- Stage- Production.During QA environment they will disable the captcha for your automation)
2)Selenium cannot automate the pictures(Applitools can automate the picture)
3)Selenium has no call center
4)Selenium has no reporting system(TESTNG,CUCUMBER HTML REPORT)
5)Selenium automates only web application not mobile, desktop application.
SELENIUM ADVANTAGES:
1)Selenium is free and open source tool(there is no company constantly(periodically improving the application.Community(everyone) is contributing))
2)Selenium supports multiple browsers(Chrome,Safari...)
3)Selenium supports multiple coding language.(java,Ruby,C#,Phyton,javascript)
INTERVIEW QUESTIONS:CAN YOU TALK LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE TYPES OF SELENIUM AND WHY SPECIFICALLY YOU CHOOSE [your answer should selenium webdriver]?
1-Selenium RC(Remote Control):The application is stored in the server and automation is happening in the erver.(it is not used anymore)-->merged with selenium webdriver to selenium 2;
2-Selenium IDE(Integrated Development Environment): is primarily record/run tool.
The reason I am not using IDE anymore because it is not reliable, and also it doesn't wait my elements from website to be loaded.
3-Selenium WebDriver: it is a library that we can add to our project(java project) and start using the ready class.
4-Selenium Grid:it will help us to run our automation script(project) in different server.
	10000-->60-80 hours. in different web browser 4 -->180-240
	This is also called paralell testing.
	15 hours will take to finish.
	2500
	2500
	2500
	2500
	10000--> microsoft edge
	10000 -- >chrome
	10000 -->safari
	10000 -->explorer
	WHAT IS MAVEN AND POM ?
	HOW TO CREATE A SELENIUM PROJECT:
	STEP1:Open intelliJ and click File-->New -->Project
	STEP2:pick MAVEN from the list(on the left) and Click Next then GIve a proper name for the projectname then click finish.
	STEP3:Delete the test folder since it is for unit testing.
	 WHAT IS MAVEN: Maven is a tool which is used for building and managing java based project.
	 *in Maven, a dependecy is just another archive(java,zip and so on) which our current project needs in order to compile,build,test,and run..
	 **If these  dependencies are not present in the local repository, then Maven will download them from a remote repository for your local machine.
	 POM:(Project Object Model):
	 every dependency(librar, tools will go under the pom.xml file.)
	STEP4:Add selenium to the project.--> Create a dependencies under pom.xml file--> Go to the MVNrepository website for the dependency-->Find the Selenium 4.0.0 and click or copy all the dependencies from the box.-->go to your intelliJ and paste this under <dependencies which we created.-->Click the m sign top right.
	STEP5:If you do not have google chrome go and type google chrome download on the google. and install it.(for people who don't have google chrome)
	STEP6:Selenium is a driver of the car but we need a key to start the engine.Key will be our CHROME.exe or other keys like geckodriver(firefox);
	Interview Questions: DO you know the the driver for Firefox ?
						 What do you use as a driver for Google Chrome?
	Step7:Search for the "dowload chrome.exe for selenium"--> Download the chrome.exe after you check the version of the chrome.--> and download the proper one.
	Step8: Once you download the chrome.exe then copy->paste under the Project(seleniumB11 mine).
	RECAP:
	-We learned the history of the SELENIUM;
	-We learned how to setup selenium to our computer
	-We learned the terminology of selenium (like maven, pom, dependency)
	-We learned how to use methods of driver.(get, navigate to, back,forward, close, getpagesource,gettitle, quit, getcurrenturl)
	INTERVIEW QUESTIONS:
	1-What is the difference between driver.get() - driver.navigate.to():
		*To be honest there is not really much difference between them.But i think these 2 differences are major:
		- First difference is I would definetely say LOADING time for the element. Driver.get() method waits all elements to be loaded.Unlike driver.get(), driver.navigate to doesn't wait for all elements to be loaded.
	    -Second difference is driver.navigate has methods(like forward, back,refresh,to)
	 2)What is the difference between driver.quit() -driver.close();
	 	*In my project I generally use DRIVER.QUIT()to make sure I close all the tabs after the automation.(it closes all the tabs)
	 	*driver.close()-->it closes the CURRENT PAGE(tab).